Temporal interference refers to one element
blocking the execution of another element over time.
For example, if two software elements share data,
a higher priority thread could continuously get access to
the data and the low priority thread would always be waiting.
This is called blocking of execution.
There are many other cases of temporal interference,
and we will discuss a few couple of months.
Deadlocks occur when two executed threads need each others resources;
though thread one needs resource B,
but has to resource A. Thread two needs resource A,
but has resource B.
A similar interference is called Livelocks.
Where two threads wants the same resource.
In this case both threads have the courtesy to let the other thread go first,
but they keep stepping aside and then trying to grab the resource simultaneously.
Another example of temporal interference
is incorrect synchronization between software elements.
For example, consider an autonomous vehicle that has
both a radar system and camera system for vehicle detection.
Each system will have its own issue.
But what if the clocks on the issues are not synchronized properly,
then sensor fusion could not be done
since there would be no way to compress signals over time.
Hence, clocks need to be synchronized or
all software elements need to use the same master clock.
When any time or executioner related fault occurs,
safety mechanisms need to take action.
This can be a degraded functionality and
eventual transition to a safe state to avoid safety goal violations.